# Virtual-crackers-using-VR
### VR application(game) where the user can enjoy the experience of bursting crackers in a VR environment

#### This project is done mainly with the help of two softwares: Blender and Unity. Blender was used by us in the making of this project in order to design all the cracker models that are burst in the VR environment. Each and every cracker model in was designed in blender and exported to the scene in Unity. We used Unity software for developing the game’s UI, scenes (portals and terrain designs for bursting crackers in different environments). We have modified our build settings in such a way that it works with a oculus headset.

### Purpose of the work:
#### The main purpose of the work is to make children happy by providing them with a new VR experience by bursting crackers in a VR environment. Also, as bursting crackers in real time causes more pollution it can’t be considered as an ideal way of entertainment anymore for the increasing pollution levels and global warming. This pollution crisis is not only a threat for environment but also for the living beings including us, May be a cause for health issues like asthma,  lung damage, Wheezing, etc.  So, we can provide an ideal solution for this entertainment with the help of our game. Cracker industries also are one of the major child labour enforcing industries. Reducing them with the help of our small possible contribution can create a big difference in their life. They can go to schools and learn and improve their lifestyle. Labors too get with health issues due to the long-term work in chemical environment and toxic release. Also, major fire accidents in Tamil Nadu are caused due to Cracker manufacturing industries. In order to tackle these issues, we decided to move on with this project.
